Port MASTG-TEST-0049: Testing Emulator Detection (android) (by @Vulnit) (#3607)
OWASP/mastg: tests-beta/android/MASVS-RESILIENCE/MASTG-TEST-0x49.md

---
platform: android
title: Emulator Detection Checks
id: MASTG-TEST-0x49
type: [dynamic]
weakness: MASWE-0099
best-practices: []
profiles: [R]
knowledge: [MASTG-KNOW-0031]
---

## Overview

This test verifies that the app implements emulator detection checks and that it executes them at runtime.

This test verifies if the application performs emulation detection by gathering dynamic evidence via hooking. See @MASTG-KNOW-0031 for a detailed overview about emulation detection indicators and patterns performed by applications.

> Threat model: an attacker can instrument or hook the process.

Reviewer: We should align this with other tests and the instructions:

```suggestion
This test verifies whether the app actively executes emulator detection checks at runtime. An attacker who runs the app in an emulator can more easily leverage dynamic analysis tools and techniques that aren't practical on physical devices, making it important that effective emulator detection is actually triggered during execution.

See @MASTG-KNOW-0031 for more information on emulator detection techniques and specific APIs and artifacts to look for.
```

## Steps

1. Start the device.
2. Use runtime method hooking (see @MASTG-TECH-0043) and look for usages of emulator detection APIs (see @MASTG-KNOW-0031 to obtain a detailed list of emulation methods) while running the app on a device.

## Observation

The output should contain evidence of emulator detection checks.

## Evaluation

> The test case fails if the hooking output does not show any evidence of emulator detection checks.

Reviewer: no other tests use "start the device". I also removed the repetition of the KNOW mention.

```suggestion
1. Run @MASTG-TECH-0043 to trace emulator detection API calls while exercising the app.

## Observation

The output should contain any instances of emulator detection checks, along with the methods or APIs that were hooked.

## Evaluation

The test case fails if no instances of emulator detection checks are observed.
```
